This program accepts input from the csv file ms3Interview.csv with 10 columns. The program sorts the data into good and bad data based on presence of data in a row. If data is present for all 10 columns, the data is considered good, otherwise it is bad. Good data is added to an SQLite3 database named ms3Interview.db and bad data is pushed back to another csv named ms3Interview-bad.csv. A log of total lines of information read, good and bad data is stored in ms3Interview.log.

An executable jar named ms3Project.jar is included. This jar can be run via command line using the command java -jar ms3Project.jar, as long as java 1.8 or newer is installed. This jar file, ms3Project.jar, is a completely built executable of the code with dependent references packaged in. You may simply run the executable with the ms3Interview.csv in the same directory. To compile and run this program otherwise, the jar for SQLite 3.34.0 must be included in the projects referenced libraries. A copy of the jar is included in the project folder just in case. The classpath may need to be modified depending on how you attempt to run the program. The file ms3Interview.csv must be in the local project directory for the program to run. The program is run with no arguments. The database can be tested via terminal or a database interfacing program. SQLite should be installed on your machine to run SQLite commands. In order to run the program again, you must remove the database from your project folder or you will have an error in the database creation. When testing the database, the name of the table itself is MS3INTERVIEW. An executable jar named ms3Project.jar is also included. If the database is accessed via command line. You may run the command sqlite3 to enter the database environment. From there .open ms3Interview.db will access the database. You may run commands such as SELECT * FROM MS3INTERVIEW to see the entire table or SELECT COUNT (*) FROM MS3INTERVIEW to see the number of rows of data. You may check specific columns with the commands SELECT A FROM MS3INTERVIEW, with A replaced for any column from A-J.


When approaching this problem, I decided to include two classes along with my main driver class. One class to handle all of the database functions, and one to handle the reading and writing. I chose to disable autocommit to the database and batch my prepared statements and commit the entire batch at once. Accessing and writing to a database many times becomes a serious time constraint. By batching the statements, I am able to commit all good data to the database in a bundle and increase efficiency exponentially. I chose to combine the reading and writing function into one. This prevents me from having to create an additional data type to hold file contents. The program can read a line, process it, decide what to do with the data, add it to the database batch or write it to its respective file and then overwrite the line. The batch is currently written to the database all at once, my assumption is that the dataset will not exceed the container size for the batch command. The solution can easily be modified to commit the batch every so many elements in that situation. I assumed the data file would be in the project folder. I assumed the names of the file would remain constant. This program can be easily modified to accept other files or to accept a command line argument for a file name.
